after my recent video critique of any
letters the story of cosmetics I
received almost universal praise for the
video even from those who sometimes
disagree with me people were very
appreciative that I cited my sources
very clearly and I utilized
peer-reviewed science and scholarly
associations to back up my claims
moreover the greatest response i
received were from small business owners
who are very concerned the legislation
proposed by annie leonard and the
campaign for safe cosmetics will not
only put them out of business we'll have
the opposite result of making cosmetics
less safe surprisingly i have received
no response from any ladder or the
campaign for safe cosmetics however i
did receive a very disturbing email from
a user on youtube who goes by the alias
shim doh Shindo who had watched both
videos was concerned that annie and the
campaign perceived cosmetics were being
misleading and wanted a response to some
of the arguments in my video he wrote
the following to stacey Malkin of the
campaign for safe cosmetics hello I
recently watched the story of cosmetics
on YouTube then I watched a rebuttal to
the video that's my video now I'm just
plain confused it seems like the things
she said referring to Annie Leonard were
true but after watching the other video
I have a hard time believing what she
had said could you address some of the
points made in the rebuttal video
excellent this would have been a great
opportunity for stacey Malkin of the
campaign for safe cosmetics to address
the following why they never told their
audience that the trace amounts of lead
found in lipstick are not added by
companies but instead are naturally
occurring in the environment in our air
water and land why did she never mention
that the FDA allows 20 parts per million
of lead and lipstick color additives and
the highest trace was slightly higher
than three parts per million why did the
campaign for safe cosmetics compared the
lipstick trace chemicals to the limits
allowed in children's candy when one is
ingested in large quantities and the
other is applied to the skin why do they
continue scare people with the word
carcinogens without saying that
carcinogens can be found in everything
we eat at the parts per billion level so
what was the response from Stacey Malkin
here she says thanks for writing the
script of Annie Leonard's video is
available online with full documented
footnotes here you will not find a
similar footnoted script for the
rebuttal video referring to my video in
fact he refers to only one source in the
entire film the article of a newsletter
editor who works for George Mason
University
which does not have a reputation for
unbiased independent work it also
happens to be heavily funded by oil
interests he also discusses at length an
FDA study that he obviously has not read
the study was not a safety assessment of
lead and lipstick it contained no
analysis of health data no exposure or
absorption analysis and looked only at
whether lipstick contain lead they do
the quotes he presents as being in the
FDA peer-reviewed study are not in the
FDA's peer-reviewed study the guy has
zero credibility sincerely Stacey Malkin
other than acknowledging that she didn't
address a single claim for my video she
made some serious accusations and I'm
gonna go through them one by one she
claims I did not provide a footnoted
script that's because unlike any
lettered in her video I actually cited
my sources directly in the video I even
provide links to some of the sources in
the description of the video so that is
simply not true she claims I only refer
to one source the entire film that's
simply not true as I cited stats org the
Society of toxicology a peer-reviewed
study from the Journal of cosmetic
science an ABC News interview of
world-renowned scientist dr. Ames
statements from the FDA website and
citations from Malkin's very own
organization just to name a few third
and most egregious she attacks the
credibility of an independent Scalia
Association at George Mason University
she asserts that they take money from
big oil first of all either what they
say is true or it isn't or regardless of
the funding second if they took money
from big oil it would have zero impact
and what they have to say about
cosmetics lastly I actually did some
investigation and I emailed stats org at
George Mason University and was told
explicitly that they do not take any
money from industries supposedly several
years ago a private foundation own stock
in Exxon and subsequently donated money
to STATS org under that logic Malkin
herself could be funded by big oil if
any of our employees have axons in their
401ks it's absurd so the statement about
their credibility is patently false
stats org is an independent scally
organization at a respected university
she claims I didn't read the FDA study
because it doesn't assess the safety of
lead and lipstick this is laughable not
only did I read the study that was
independently
he reviewed but I mentioned explicitly
what it tested tested how much lead was
in lipstick the FDA and organizations
around the world have already assessed
the health risks of trace amounts of
blood again Malkin points out
misleadingly that lead was found in
lipstick but doesn't explain how it got
there or how much and since she has seen
my video and claims now to have read the
FDA's study she's simply not being
truthful let's watch mal can continue
this misinformation campaign on
Democracy Now where she first misleads
the viewers and the host Amy Goodman to
thinking that companies actually add
lead to lipstick which they don't and
then she goes back to the trace amounts
of lead argument even though she knows
where the trace amounts come from and if
the trace amounts are well below 20
parts per million Stacey why do they put
lead in lipstick let is a contaminant
lipstick it's either because ingredients
that they're using our have led in them
or it could be part of the pigment or
the colorant that companies are using to
get certain color quality and and so as
I was saying you know let it's been said
that lead exposure is really just a
problem for children and kids don't wear
lipstick but I think it's really
important to point out you know where
two children come from they come from
the bodies of women and women as you
said Amy millions of women are applying
lipstick to their lips every day and let
is a substance that builds in the body
it stays with us built up over time so
any amount of lead exposure is something
that you want to avoid and the Centers
for Disease Control even says that
consumers should avoid cosmetics that
could be contaminated with lead and we
know from our tests that that includes
face paints and also lipstick someone
who is confident in his or her argument
would address the points I made in my
rebuttal video and not try to smear
universities with false statements
however when you listen to Malcolm's
real goals you may understand why we
need to give the beauty industry the US
government and the economy a makeover